### About dataset
Paid Search is one of the most efficient way to promote your products or services nowadays as we all know. Companies ''fight'' to get the best keywords to appear in the first google search page.
The dataset is a real dataset containing data of a 2021- 5 months paid search campaign of a Us shopping mall (that for privacy reasons for this project the name has been anonymized) promoting through paid search coupons and promo codes. The dataset contains information about the ad group advertising, clicks, conversions, impressions, revenues and costs (see below the dataset dictionary)

### Dataset link: 
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/marceaxl82/shopping-mall-paid-search-campaign-dataset/data
### Data Dictionary
Ad Group: category of the advert (coupon/promo code, desktop ad/mobile ad etc…)

<br>Month: month of the campaign. The campaign started in July 2021 and ended in November 2021.

<br>Impressions: metric used in digital marketing to quantify the number of digital views or engagements of an advertisement. Impressions are also referred to as an "ad view.

<br>Clicks: how many clicks the ad received

<br>CTR: Click Through Rate, the number of clicks that your ad receives divided by the number of times your ad is shown: clicks ÷ impressions = Click Through Rate.

<br>Conversions: Conversions are those valuable actions that users take on your site like buying something or filling in a form. The success can be measured in the number of conversions generated at a particular cost.

<br>Conv Rate: Conversion Rate. It is the percentage of people who convert after clicking on your ads. Depending on your goals, a conversion may mean they make a purchase, complete a contact form, request a free trial, or take another desired action.

<br>Cost: Cost is the actual money spent by the advertiser (the "shop") for the related ad group.

<br>CPC: Cost Per Click, it is the cost of the specific ads divided by the click. It is one of the metrics used to evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign in terms of ROI (Return on Investment), therefore a low or decreasing CPC is better than a high or increasing CPC.

<br>Revenue: Revenue is the total amount of income generated by advertisement.

<br>Sale Amount: Sale Amount for this dataset means the quantity of sales derived by the single ad group.

<br>P&L: Profit and Loss, based on the formula Revenue - Cost. For this dataset measures the profit of the specific Ad Group.

### Business Questions
To evaluate the effectiveness of our Promotion Strategies and Keyword Strategies, we will explore the following business questions:
1. Which Promotion Strategy is most effective in driving both traffic and profit?
2. What Keyword Strategy and Device are most effective in driving engagement and conversions?
3. Which month demonstrated the best business performance?

### Data Preprocessing
Since the data from Kaggle was already clean, I didn't need to perform any data cleansing. My task in Excel was simply to use the "Text to Columns" feature to split the Ad Group column into four separate columns: Ad Group, Keyword Strategy, Device, and Promotion Strategy. 
However, I noticed that in the Promotion Strategy column, there were some duplicate entries, such as "[shop promo code]" and "Promo Code." To ensure consistency, I decided to standardize these entries by replacing them with the same value, "Promo Code," and did the same for any other similar cases.

### Analyzing business questions
#### 1. Which Promotion Strategy is most effective in driving both traffic and profit? 
Because it had a higher average order value than the other promotion strategies, Black Friday/Cyber Monday proved to be the most successful in terms of ROI and ROAS. Additionally, it's the only tactic that brought in a $158 profit. While the click-through rates for strategies like Competitor, Coupon Code, and Discount Code were high (28%, 38%, and 30%, respectively), they produced no profit and had a negative return on investment. Even with a low cost per click, Free Shipping and Offer still resulted in losses. Despite having a strong click-through rate (37%) and conversion rate (15%), Promo Code's high cost per click prevented it from making any money. With an average CPC and the lowest ROI, ROAS, and conversion rate, Sale was the least successful tactic. Overall, these promotional strategies didn't achieve sales targets
<br>While overall keyword strategies did not achieve profitability, they attracted significant customer attention. Big losses resulted from the high sales numbers not being able to pay all of the total costs. With an average order value of $2.2, Discount Code has the lowest average order value among all promotional strategies, with the majority falling between $5.8 and $6.6. Nonetheless, there was a significant range of click-through rates (from 7% to 38%) for these ads. 

<br>***=> With a CTR of 30%, ROAS of 87%, ROI of -0.13%, and a CPC of $0.57, Coupon Code proved to be the most effective Promotion Strategy.***

<br***>=> Sale had an average CPC but it was the least successful strategy in terms of CTR, ROAS, and ROI (CTR: 7%, ROAS: 40%, ROI: -60%, CPC: $0.61)***

#### 2. What Keyword Strategy and Device are most effective in driving engagement and conversions?
In terms of keyword and device approach, the CPC for mobile was $0.51 as opposed to $1.22 for desktop. Mobile was the source of most conversions. But the ROI on mobile was just -13%, whereas the ROI on desktop was 10%. Despite the higher conversion rate, the order value on Mobile was insufficient to cover the expense of advertising. The most successful keyword approach was 1:1, which had the best CTR (39%) and the highest number of conversions on desktop and mobile platforms. The 1:1 and Exact keywords performed similarly in terms of revenue, with nearly identical ROAS and ROI (both negative). With the highest CPC, lowest CTR, lowest ROAS, and lowest ROI, the Phrase keyword strategy proved to be the least successful.
<br>
***=> To effectively target customers' search intent, it is recommended to select Mobile and 1:1 keyword strategy; nevertheless, it is important to take into account the associated expenses to prevent additional economic losses.***

#### 3. Which month demonstrated the best business performance?
The best performing month is typically the one with the highest ROAS and ROI, along with a conversion rate that's at least average. At first glance, the chart makes November seem like the winner. But, since that's when Black Friday and Cyber Monday happen, sales and conversions skyrocketed. However, the huge discounts we offered ate into our profits more than any other month in the past five. So, I think November is a bit of an outlier. (As you can see in the graph, when selecting November, the graph clearly shows that the profit for November experienced a dramatic decrease of 2768% compared to the previous month)
The click-through rate for that month was the lowest of the five, and the high conversion rate was mostly due to people remembering the sales, not because our ads were super compelling. In my opinion, October was the real standout. It had the best ROAS and ROI, along with average CPC, CTR, and conversion rates. It was also the only month out of the five that turned a profit, even though the cost per click was a pretty average $0.67
<br>***=> In terms of both cost and profit, October proved to be the most efficient month. Furthermore, its click-through rates and conversion rates were good.***

#### Thanks for your time! If you have any questions or just want to chat, don't hesitate to get in touch. I'm always excited to talk about data and discover new possibilities!
